This repository contains the code that I developed over the course of my summer research project with Dr. Matthew Reeves and Prof. Matthew Davis at UQ over the 2023/2024 summer. The aim of my project was to try to numerically reproduce the theoretical prediction of the paper by Bogatskiy and Wiegmann that on the boundary of an infinitely large rotating vortex matter, you can excite edge modes that are solitonic in nature and which obey the Benjamin-Davis-Ono equation. In order to achieve this, I wrote code that numerically solved the point vortex model (PVM) for superfluid vortices in a rotating frame of reference. It does so using a 4th/5th order Runge-Kutta method in MATLAB, with visualisation in Julia. My code can initialise an arbitrarily large vortex matter in a triangular lattice, and to then solve the dynamics under some perturbation to the density of vortices on the boundary. My code allows you to perturb the boundary in a number of ways, including by just inserting extra vortices in a circle, in a triangle, and actually repositioning the vortices according to the density profile of a Lorentzian. Under these conditions, my code can also isolate the edge vortices and analyse the resulting Fourier modes along the boundary.

In addition to numerically solving the PVM under the conditions assumed in the theoretical paper, I also wrote code that numerically solves the Benjamin-Davis-Ono equation, which is the non-linear wave equation that Bogatskiy and Wiegmann showed the edge modes should obey in their paper. My code numerically solves the BDO equation dynamics using a fourth order Runge-Kutta split-spectral method. The code is relatively numerically robust and can model the dynamics starting from an initial condition of multiple Lorentzian solitons. This can be used to demonstrate the general behaviour of solitons, including their ability to travel indefinitely as a localised wave packet, and to pass through each other completely unaffected. 

The hope was that the outcome of my project would be to numerically find the solitonic edge modes predicted theoretically for these large rotating vortex matter systems and compare the results to those that my BDO simulations predicted, however, this turned out to be harder than expected, and I wasn't able to find definitive proof of the predicted edge solitons. Although I did find some evidence of wavey behaviour around the edges of the vortex matter.

NOTE: The state of this code is quite messy and I aim to clean up the folder structure and the way that files link to each other so that every file can be run with a single command, although this is not possible with the code at the current stage.
